Jeb Ory | 00:07
I.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 00:08
Good job. How are you doing, man? The video fired up. Here you go. Sorry, I'm floating a little bit. I'm in one of our phone booths in the corporate office, but.
Jeb Ory | 00:21
Are you still down there? Were you there last week.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 00:23
Well, yeah, I feel like it's been a nonstop.
Jeb Ory | 00:23
Toom two.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 00:26
I was here five days last week. It was supposed to be four, and then we had some meetings get moved.
So I flew back in again this week. And after this call and wheels up headed the airport. So how are you doing?
Jeb Ory | 00:37
All right, cool.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 00:38
All right?
Jeb Ory | 00:38
Yeah, I'm doing well.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 00:40
Good, yeah.
Jeb Ory | 00:40
We had one of the... You know, we're in DC right now, and we're kind of ground zero for everything happening. One of our family friends got detained by ICE, so that's a new one. It hasn't happened before.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 00:55
Wow, yet or still dez yet detain.
Jeb Ory | 00:55
A a GC that we work with sometimes. What's that? No, he's... He got picked up yesterday or two days ago, and he's in a process center, right?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 01:10
So that I could catch a release like legitimate. He's heading head heading back home where he didn't want to be.
Jeb Ory | 01:17
Yeah, we'll see.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 01:18
Yeah, it feels like this stuff is more go to the back of the line.
Jeb Ory | 01:19
I don't know, he's going to be in a detention center for a while, and there's a court date at the end of the month, so we'll see. He was in the process of applying for his green card, so, but he's been here for, like, twenty years.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 01:36
And if you were in the process of getting stuff, you're not getting granted much. I just haven't read the article, but I saw a headline when I was switching between meetings that sounds like they rated some Honda battery plant.
Jeb Ory | 01:41
Yeah.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 01:48
And like 375 or something like that illegals that were there.
Jeb Ory | 01:49
And Georgia. Yeah. I mean, it's interesting because, like, we're starting to see like more of the impact of some of the things like, you know, I use you take the Metro to station and we've had National Guard there and stuff.
So anyway, it's like it's an interesting, like kind of point in time, but, anyway, yeah, so what's the feedback then?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 02:13
Yeah, yes, a quick update here.
Jeb Ory | 02:15
No, yeah, no.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 02:15
So I've been having internal conversations. The one challenge is not necessarily with the need or usability. It's about making sure that we understand everybody who could benefit from stakeholder usage.
That list keeps growing. So it's like what our team was managing, which I didn't realize either actually got handed off to our state and local team. So that's one piece. We have our constituent relationships with, I think I mentioned before, which is like WCPS or UnidosUS or those orgs.
So I had conversations with Lee and I with one of their team members. I'm still trying to connect with their VP to talk through it, trying to understand what our community team is doing and how they're managing that locally. There was a time when our federal team was using the Decorum tools to track legislative relationships, not necessarily ABC stakeholder groups.
So, that came up this week in the discussion. Hey, are we clear? So it's not a yes, it's not a no, it's a let's... Let's ask me to make sure we understand everybody who could benefit or who should potentially have some feedback into the discussion if we're going to explore it as part of a beta and make sure that we get something that could potentially be meaningful and useful on the backside.
Jeb Ory | 03:26
One. Yeah.
Okay, so one thing I'm thinking about is the best way to engage, right? One option would be treating this more like a consulting project as opposed to a software vendor per se.
I want to build a software platform. That's what the plan is. I'm trying to think of the best way to engage with you guys, and I think I'm going to do this with ATT at the same time.
No, I'm saying I want to have a couple of beta customers, right?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 04:11
Are you thinking they're wanting to build an in-house tool instead of using an external tool and a dual or.
Jeb Ory | 04:22
To build this with and for, and incorporate the feedback.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 04:24
Yes.
Jeb Ory | 04:25
And your needs are like fairly like there's a lot of overlap.
Like ATV is highly involved in policy influence.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 04:35
Yeah. We actually do a bunch of collaboration with them on stuff just because of Dan Bartlett's linkage with them.
Jeb Ory | 04:41
Yeah, but anyway, my thought is if it would be helpful for me to come in initially as a consultant and help with some of the groups and whatever.
I'd love to find good ways to move this forward and help because it sounds like you had a whole bunch of additional work that just landed on your lap because of this. I'm like...
So... And I know you... You know, you don't have... Yeah, I mean, I think this is hugely helpful.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 05:08
Yeah, I thought I was just having a meeting, making sure that it was okay, that I was looping in the owner of it, and all of a sudden it's like, "Wait a minute." It was like, "Okay, but it's
all good. If it helps you and long term helps us, it's not a big deal.
Jeb Ory | 05:27
And so if I could be helpful or even initially engage as a consultant to help corral some of these groups, help you do interviews with them or whatever,
I want to make myself available for that because I know that there's going to be so much valuable insight in every one of your conversations, so I don't want to miss that. I know that you'll give me the download,
but I want to be helpful.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 05:56
Yeah, well.
Jeb Ory | 05:57
If I can be. So just know that that's an opportunity.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 05:59
And where I'm thinking this needs to go is that once I have circled the wagons with everybody that has been identified so far and anybody else that maybe gets teased out in that process is then to have a general overview call like you and I did last time where I take five minutes and talk to you all individually, here's the point of this.
Jeb Ory | 06:10
Yeah, sure. I idea.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 06:22
We've worked with Jeb for years.
Jeb Ory | 06:24
8.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 06:24
Like is a new product that's potentially being built, going to give Jeb an opportunity to go through it, share some of the slides, and you can either openly ask questions now or we can set up a follow-up call.
Jeb Ory | 06:32
No, three, yeah.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 06:36
Whatever you know makes the most sense.
Then see where people go. Because then out of that is where we've got to land on people saying, "Yes, we're in on this or not in on it." It's just unfortunate. I can't just hop on a call and say, "Here's what I'm throwing at you."
Lee's asked me to have these individual conversations with folks to decide if they should be in the boat or not for the conversation.
Jeb Ory | 06:53
Yes. So just one more time, run through the different parties that are... I mean, you said it, but I want to take the notes now, so I just go through again. Who are all the are?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 07:07
Yeah. So, the short list of who we're looking at. So, you know, the ABCs of NGA and that kind of stuff that's being managed by our state and local team now, not by mad on our team. The constituent relations team, which is like NWLACPU needs us, the diverse organizations, our community team to identify. I'll use anitos, they have a bunch of local affiliates.
Are we tracking or are we tying that in? Maybe it's the Chamber of Commerce or other regional groups who may make sense that they're looping in with. So, we're trying to identify, are they tracking anything, are they doing anything?
Some of these may follow the scope of what you're considering, but this is just what Lee's asked me to make sure they're looped in our federal team and whatever it is they are, aren't doing. That's going to tie more into the NGS and all the different legislative committees and funding sources and all that kind of stuff.
Then we had some sidebar conversation about, "Okay, well, what about the foundation?" Are there groups that they're tracking, or are there other business priorities? So, for example, we're working on interchange fees.
Our Treasury and finance group has a bunch of different coalition partners and things that they're on.
Jeb Ory | 08:41
Yes.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 08:42
Like that make sense in the health and wellness space? Like a whole bunch of trade groups, whether that's pharmacy associations or... When I think about it, I mentioned this when we talked last, like the telehealth work we were doing at one point and then at some point we exited that.
But lots of stuff in the health and wellness space. So I don't think we're going to get to all that. I think we're going to try to keep it within policy and legislative to start with. My sense is that's where you want to be anyway.
But those are some of the questions that have come out of the conversations I've been having so far.
Jeb Ory | 09:18
So like there's that's great. So it sounds like it's these I mean, our state and local constituent relations community, all of those are directly funding different organizations, right?
Like they're making investments. It may be the Kamas Club, it may be a you know, a diverse affinity group. It may be a trade association or a chamber, it may be a think tank.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 09:43
Two.
Jeb Ory | 09:45
And then federal is indirectly like the PAC will fund.
But federal has the like federal is not funding the well, maybe the NGS, but like, they're obviously not funding the lawmakers directly, right? That may come from a PAC so that's more of like traditional like, yeah, okay.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 10:01
Well, we do both corporate funding and we do PACs. It just depends on state and federal guidelines. So we do a little bit of both. So even at the state level, if we can do corporate dollars, we'll opt for that because we have other states we can't do corporate dollars and we can only use PAC funding.
We wouldn't be tracking any of the PAC stuff. That's all managed separately. I don't see that folding into this.
Jeb Ory | 10:24
Yeah, no, okay, and then health and wellness, so that's a business, right? So then there're separate business lines that maintain their own, I guess, separate set of third-party relationships.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 10:38
Yeah, and they'll flow back and forth, though. So I'm going to use pharmacy associations, right?
Jeb Ory | 10:42
Yeah.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 10:42
Like most states have a pharmacy association, and there's times when we say health and wellness owns like.
Jeb Ory | 10:43
Right?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 10:49
But for the last, I don't know, six years or so, while our team has been doing a lot of health and wellness initiatives, we took over ownership of all of those invoices, managing that. Anybody in the inner enterprise could utilize them,
but we kind of owned that. Well, now we're getting ready to hand it back off to health and wellness. So starting with all the renewals later this year and next year, they'll take that back over. So there's somebody still important to our legislative priorities and work we're trying to get done in states.
Jeb Ory | 11:17
Yes, right.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 11:19
We don't maintain relationships with every state that has a pharmacy association. I'll use Iowa, for example.
It's a pretty business-friendly state from that perspective. They have a great association that we know we could lean on, but we just haven't had to utilize them. They've been lobbying us for probably half a dozen years to join, and we just haven't had a need.
But if we did have a need, they'd be an easy one that we'd join in a heartbeat because they're so effective.
Jeb Ory | 11:44
Okay, what do you think? What does a timeline look like to have individual conversations and then pick dick?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 11:52
So I'm hoping to try to get through all those conversations in the next week.
Jeb Ory | 11:55
Okay, yes.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 11:56
I was actually hoping that I would get through them this week, but I wasn't expecting to get diverted on this trip, which is neither here nor there.
Then I lost a day last week because I was traveling on Thursday, and my flights got canceled, so I got stuck here for an extra day.
Jeb Ory | 12:09
Yeah.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 12:11
But then nobody was here because of the long holiday weekend, so that didn't help.
So my hope is to finalize them and then try to set up a joint call for the following week, just to do a quick intro, let you walk through slides, and talk to folks, and then maybe have you drop off and just finish a conversation with that group, saying, "Hey, does this make sense?
Jeb Ory | 12:22
Great. Perfect. Great.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 12:34
So we have a follow-up call. Jeb, are there some people that are interested, and some that aren't?
Jeb Ory | 12:35
Yeah, okay, yeah.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 12:38
And figure out what it is. Then, at some point, probably hand it off to Amy Hill, who is managing her stakeholder groups now, assuming she wants it.
If she doesn't, I'll stay involved as long as I need to, but I don't want to be in anybody's way or then feel like I'm trying to own this. I'm just trying to connect the dots, and it seems like you're building something that we could use, going back to our original conversation.
Jeb Ory | 13:03
Where is Amy based?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 13:06
She's in Nevada, but she runs the West for our state and local team.
Jeb Ory | 13:08
Okay, I don't think I've met her before.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 13:10
So she's got about 20 states in an odd configuration that goes from Wisconsin down to Texas, not in a straight line, but everything west of that is hers. And she's our longest survey in group director on the state and local team that reports our VP.
Jeb Ory | 13:32
I'm trying to think about it. I don't know if I know her. Would it make sense for me to try to connect with her ahead of the larger meeting or?
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 13:40
I would not, she could.
Jeb Ory | 13:41
Okay.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 13:43
She's great and she can be tough.
Jeb Ory | 13:47
Sure. Okay.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 13:48
So I think as long as it's on her terms, that she's on board. But if she feels like she's getting sold or pushed or something like that, she moves in a different direction.
Once she's there, it's hard to get her to come back. So I try to handle her with kick gloves just to make sure that I don't cross any wires there. But if she's on board with you, she's fantastic.
Jeb Ory | 14:11
Is there anybody else I should try to engage with ahead of, like, in between you talking to them and then the me, the meeting itself.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 14:18
I don't think so, because most of them are VPS. Anthony is the only one that's not a VP.
Jeb Ory | 14:22
Okay.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 14:24
And I think just let me either identify if they want to be on the conversation or if they want one of their directors or senior directors, depending on what they have in their portfolio, to be part of the conversation.
Then I really think it's just going through the slides like you did with me, and you tell me how much time you think you need. Then I just find on everybody's calendar and start the conversation more broadly and go from there.
Jeb Ory | 14:49
Okay. I mean, I like somewhere between 30 and 45 minutes. I'd ideally like to ask questions, but I'd like to understand where people are coming from and get their perspective in the call.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 15:05
Yes.
Jeb Ory | 15:05
But I'm going to have... I mean, I have a prototype, and we're actually working on building the code for the underlying platform right now. So, we'll have... I mean, I'll definitely have stuff that I can share, but I still want them to know that their feedback can impact what they see.
It's not like we really want the feedback. That's hugely valuable. One other little thing I've been thinking about as I've had some other conversations is allowing people. We're going to have all this really important information. Lots of third parties...
We can go. Once we get a third party, we're going to do research on it, and we're going to have a repository of information, like everything they've published. You know, their size, all the publicly available information about them.
You actually can... Yeah, right, exactly.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 15:51
Yeah, we talked about that last time. I think of the ALEC example or what headline risk is or what do they do each ABC group provide for you if somebody is trying to decide if they should add them to their portfolio or not?
Jeb Ory | 16:04
You can query and start asking, like, "Okay, what are three other groups like ALEC that may be smaller?" "Hey, SPN, try it." So, that's one thing that's emerged that we've been thinking about too.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 16:12
Yeah.
Jeb Ory | 16:17
So, you know, there's an ancillary need. It's like I think we're doing three things. I think it's like just getting the spend data and the owner data like front and center. So you guys can see that then it's like helping you keep track of the different key relationships and what those organizations are doing.
Then you can do it, and then you can compare your policies against what their stated policies are, and then you can search and find other organizations that could be helpful. So I'm all of those things together, I think, is how I'm... I think it's very consistent with our conversation, but the additional conversations I'm having are definitely resonating.
So yeah, cool.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 16:59
Okay, cool. So I'd say just give me a week.
Jeb Ory | 17:03
Okay. Great.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 17:04
And if, for some reason, I haven't brought it in for a lanyard, I'll let you know.
But I'm thinking I would...
I could just get some times and dates through you the following week that might work and try to align that with people's schedules and schedule a call and go from there.
Jeb Ory | 17:13
Awesome, that's great, Aaron, thanks so much. I appreciate you taking the lead on this.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 17:22
Alright, Jeff.
Jeb Ory | 17:23
All right, have a good weekend, bye.
aaron.rios@walmart.com | 17:23
Thanks man. Have a great weekend. Talk soon.
All right.
Jeb Ory | 17:25
Yeah.
