Laura | 01:35
Hi, Jeb, I am good, how are you?
Jeb Ory | 01:36
Hey, Laura, how are you doing? Great, thanks for making the time.
Laura | 01:44
Yeah, absolutely. Thanks for setting this up.
Jeb Ory | 01:46
Yeah, can you hear me?
Laura | 01:47
I was.
Jeb Ory | 01:49
Okay? We're coming off of a pretty crazy awesome family stretch.
Laura | 01:51
Yes, I can.
Jeb Ory | 01:56
So we spent last week in the park, and I've never been there before, but these trees are like thousands of years old and just absolutely giant.
Laura | 02:00
Wow.
Jeb Ory | 02:07
It's in kind of a central valley in California.
Laura | 02:09
So wrong.
Jeb Ory | 02:11
And then we surprised the kids at the end of the trip with a stopover in Universal Studios. So.
Laura | 02:18
I'm amazing.
Jeb Ory | 02:18
And kids are seven and ten, so they just had an absolute blast. They're very into Harry Potter, so... Hey, Ryan.
Ryan | 02:27
That's je how are you?
Jeb Ory | 02:27
So doing great. I was just telling Laura that last week we did a family trip to Sequoia National Park in California, did some camping, and then we flew out of LA and we surprised my kids with a stop in Universal Studios.
So. Which I hadn't been since I was ten, so I mean, my eldest is ten, so it's kind of a fun full circle.
Ryan | 02:43
That's the way to do it. Yeah.
Jeb Ory | 02:48
So.
Ryan | 02:50
Now you got to visit Epic in Florida, yeah.
Jeb Ory | 02:53
Yeah, I know, they're big Harry Potter fans, so we spent most of our time. You can now. I mean, it's a racket, it's all a racket.
So we have all these wands now that only work in the park. But anyway, how about you guys? How was your summer then, and how was the weekend?
Laura | 03:12
God, Sony. Some good. Yeah, I've had some travel. I was in upstate New York last week. We've got a team meeting in person here in Chicago this week, so Ryan's coming from DC along with some other folks.
Jeb Ory | 03:25
Okay.
Laura | 03:29
So, yeah, it's been a pretty good summer so far.
Jeb Ory | 03:33
Runs to your base in DC.
Ryan | 03:35
Yeah, just getting ready for the big move.
Jeb Ory | 03:38
Yeah.
Ryan | 03:38
Yeah. For the next month, it's just getting ready for the big move. And happy it's no longer a hundred degrees Yeah.
Jeb Ory | 03:46
Right. So I'll give you just a minute or two of my background and how I know Sam. And then I would love to learn more about your project.
Laura | 03:56
Eight.
Jeb Ory | 03:57
So I previously had founded, co-founded, and built a company called Phone to Action. We made grassroots advocacy software. McDonald's was one of our customers, and that business was acquired. We merged with Quorum in 2022, but we worked closely with McDonald for five or six years.
I believe you guys are still using Quorum, but I may be wrong on that.
Laura | 04:24
That's right.
Jeb Ory | 04:25
Okay. So Sam and I worked really closely together on implementation and potentially some large activations that McDonald was looking at at different times.
I, as I'm sure you guys know, just came to respect Sam as a really big and complex thinker in the public affairs world and always enjoyed getting to know him personally. And we've stayed in touch since I left.
One thing that keeps popping up on the external affairs front is the need to do exactly what you guys are doing.
It's funny because I was telling Sam what I'm looking at. He's like, "We're doing exactly this project." Which is effectively trying to figure out the ROI on third-party spend and associations because the larger companies have hundreds or thousands of trade association relationships, hundreds of third parties, nonprofits, think tanks, and things.
It's becoming more and more challenging to track who's on first, who the owners are, the relationships are, what key events are coming up, and ultimately, figuring out if this money is well spent.
The way I think about it, when it comes to advocacy and lobbying, it's always hard to tell what ROI is because you don't really know until the end.
The investment in all of these third parties, which I'm including the Association of Third Parties for this conversation, is one layer abstracted above that. Because it's even harder to tell.
So my thinking is around helping companies have visualization and understanding of all the different investments they're making, who the owners are, where key events are happening next, and things around that.
But I'm finding as I went through the process of buying the last company that talking to practitioners and hearing what their specific challenges are helps me understand the best way to solve problems.
So I'm here to understand more about what you guys are working on and see if it intersects with some of the observations I've had in talking to other peers of yours. So.
Laura | 06:45
Awesome, thank you. It's really nice to be in touch. So, yeah, I can tell you a little bit more about our team and what we do.
Jeb Ory | 06:51
Yeah.
Laura | 06:52
So, we right...
And I are part of our public policy and stakeholder engagement team, and we sit within Sam's wider government relations and global public policy function.
So, I've been with the team about six years. I started off in various iterations of this team, but I started off in international public affairs. I'm a campaign person, too. So, I have that background and moved here from DCC as well.
So, our team has evolved from being public affairs in a lot of the comms and ESG before the words were built at ESG teams to now being a really dedicated policy and stakeholder engagement team.
I think that we see the two of those working really closely together. So, the other side of our sub-team within Sam's function leads policy development. I think that a lot of people are surprised to know that McDonald's has not really had a very robust policy team in the past. We've had positions on policy, we've had public affairs. People like me have pulled in policy, developing it in partnership with the business.
But in terms of being out there and having our positions, really robust positions on public policy, and then stating those public positions, that's not really been a place that McDonald's has been for so many reasons.
It's not just that people didn't feel like it or we didn't have the capacity. There are just so many reasons why we would or wouldn't say something about a position of public policy.
But I think we're getting to a place now where there's an ambition internally to not only better equip our lobbyists with more details on our positions on various things but eventually to be able to be a little bit more front-footed on publicly stating what our policy positions are. John, who's Sam's boss, really has a desire for us to be more out there. He talks about people like Microsoft, all these companies that issue white papers.
McDonald's has not done that, at least not since I've been here. If they've done it before, it's been a long time ago. So, how do we be a little bit more forward on those things to say what we're for in addition to what we're against and doing that sort of lobbying?
Ryan and I lead the stakeholder engagement side. So, our responsibility is to look over McDonald's global relationships to do exactly as you say. Understand better who the relationship owner is, what the ROI of those relationships is, in order to advance public policy objectives and enhance McDonald's reputation.
So, what we're doing now is we're undertaking. We've got a giant list, and we're undertaking a refresh of our strategy, taking a really close look internally at who's using what relationship and what they're getting out of it.
What we should be doing going forward because there are a lot of places that McDonald's has declined to engage, like the Global Plastics Treaty is a good example that comes up every time there's an I&C. Somebody comes to us and says, "Well, why isn't McDonald a part of the business coalition?"
We have to reopen it again. So, I think putting into place a little bit more rigor around why we engage with certain places and why we don't and being a little bit more ambitious about what we can be involved in, I think, is something that we are looking at too. Another big piece of this is, of course, the tracking of it. The tracking of our external stakeholder relationships has been haphazard.
Jeb Ory | 10:35
Two.
Laura | 10:42
I'd say. It lives in people's emails, it lives in word documents and very lists all over the place.
Jeb Ory | 10:45
Right.
Laura | 10:49
And there's a very strong appetite to clean that up, put a little bit more rigor behind it and make sure people are actually tracking their engagements. We know who owns these relationships, so we don't have any issues where stakeholders are caught off guard.
So, the tracking and stakeholder management of it is just logistically becoming an issue for us, and the one where we're going to solve this year. You're right, we're still using Quorum. Our plan is to continue using Quorum and try to get the rest of our team on it.
Jeb Ory | 11:24
No.
Laura | 11:25
And a few more people who engage directly with stakeholders. Our US GR teams already use it, but our stakeholder, like our sustainability and social impact team, they engage back with stakeholders. Our inclusion team does as well. Our team does too.
We just haven't been using it to track those relationships, and as I say, this information is in all sorts of different random places. We need more corporate memory of what's happened and what the relationships have been.
So, that's what we're working on for this year.
Jeb Ory | 12:08
Write anything God of it.
Ryan | 12:12
I think too, it's absolutely perfect. I think too, it's identifying anything that we're missing that is an area to focus on, so not only are our existing relationships, but anything missing or anything
that potentially is a risk as well. But that was really perfect.
Jeb Ory | 12:31
And is the... What are you assembling right now.
Laura | 12:32
Yeah. Thank you.
Jeb Ory | 12:34
When Sam described it to me, I was envisioning a really large spreadsheet that has the affiliation, the key contact or contacts of that affiliation, the owner within McDonald.
Maybe some other information and metadata around, like if it's a trade association, when your annual dues are, how much those are. I mean, how much information are you collecting right now?
What do you think is important to have in a of.
Laura | 13:12
Everything you just said. The actual interactions need to be tracked for sure. So when these meetings take place and what the outcome is, so we know when the last time these folks were communicated with. Let's see what else I think. Status of the relationship, like ride yellow green type of marker as to how things were, because there are some where the relationships that ebb and flow or some it's very positive. There are some that are good partners, but may have different views on working with McDonald over the years. Let's see what else.
That's what's coming to find right now as to what we've got tracked.
Jeb Ory | 14:04
Do you understand the team?
Laura | 14:05
And then team which team it goes with because our teams keep too sorry.
Jeb Ory | 14:10
How wide is the net? I mean, how wide is the net? Because when just thinking about trade associations, for example, there may be a number of ones you belong to for their lobbying and advocacy, but they're probably like your marketing team is probably part of the Digital Marketing Association or something. I'm making that up.
They're probably affiliations that are like professional affiliations that don't touch policy. So how do you... Is your remit focus on policy and out of scope.
Laura | 14:40
That's out of scope, yeah. So for us, what we're looking at least for this year, and I think there's a world in which we could expand this next year.
Jeb Ory | 14:50
Yeah.
Laura | 14:50
We're looking at two teams within Global Impact strictly to get people onto a Quorum.
That's more teams, and they have more relationships and more aside from now is SA Steam and the Sustainability and Social Impact team. That's about 15 or so organizations.
Jeb Ory | 15:19
Okay. And do you have a handle on the annual sorry, I'm my internet is seems to be a little bit shaker. Now do you have a handle or maybe you're getting a handle on what the annual spend is for the two teams?
Is that number easily accessible or is that something that you're trying to figure out with.
Laura | 15:40
It's. So we do intend to be tracking the spend within the data that we're collecting.
Jeb Ory | 15:48
Yeah.
Laura | 15:54
So that is the ambition.
Jeb Ory | 15:58
How many different sub... So, let's just say, if one class is classical, like the Trade Association, like the National Restaurant Association, right? Then there are... You mentioned the Plastics Global Plastics Treaty. How many different categories are you envisioning right being?
Laura | 16:17
Yeah.
Jeb Ory | 16:20
If you could just rattle off, that would be really helpful for me to understand.
Laura | 16:26
Types of organizations.
Jeb Ory | 16:28
Yeah. Types?
Laura | 16:36
We have, let's see, sites. I'm just looking at our list here.
Probably less than ten NGOs, like business associations, trade associations, and then we have categorized by demographic type, we've got an EM exactly.
Jeb Ory | 17:04
What are they?
Like an affinity group? Yeah.
Laura | 17:24
Yeah. Sustainability, human rights.
Jeb Ory | 17:30
Is it education?
Laura | 17:32
Black yes. Education. And then UN agencies and affiliated organizations.
Jeb Ory | 17:41
How many different affinity group classes are there?
Laura | 17:48
Crowd 12345, probably five.
Jeb Ory | 17:54
Like African American, Hispanic organizations, something like that. Okay, and so you're okay with that, so then getting those types of... How do you think about the events and the output?
So I understand tracking the interactions, but I was talking to a friend at Google, and what she was saying was that when they're tracking their third party. So she was responsible for the third party nonprofits and think tanks.
Some of them are Google, either directly or through the corporate foundation, giving money to. But others, they're just monitoring. One of the things they would want to monitor is if they're coming out with white papers. Do those white papers intersect with us?
So how do you think about the organizations that you're not? Maybe this includes the list. Ones you're not directly funding but you are engaged with and tracking. So how do you think about the output from different organizations, both in terms of the ones you are funding or paying dues for and the ones you're not?
Laura | 19:07
So scope is not limited to organizations that we're paying. It includes organizations that we pay, but it's not limited to that in terms of tracking their output.
Jeb Ory | 19:14
Yeah. Okay.
Laura | 19:19
That's would be done right now in an ad hoc way.
BSR sends out their emails and reports, and we'd circulate that. Or the subject matter experts would receive that and take it on board. Yeah, I'm not sure how else to answer that except in an ad hoc way.
Jeb Ory | 19:43
I mean, I think that's really like the.
Laura | 19:43
And run by the stakeholder relationship manager would be in charge of taking on that information.
Jeb Ory | 19:50
Okay. How many different stakeholders do you guys have on your end, on the McDonald's end, that are potential relationship owners?
Laura | 20:02
How many organizations do we have that are potential relationship owners?
Jeb Ory | 20:06
How many people on the McDonald's teams are there? fifteen.
Laura | 20:09
It's like 15.
Jeb Ory | 20:11
Okay, so people have a portfolio, and some percentage of that portfolio is managing some of these relationships.
Laura | 20:21
Yes.
Jeb Ory | 20:21
Yeah.
Laura | 20:21
Exactly.
Jeb Ory | 20:22
Okay. Do you see any value in having a dashboard where you could see how these are broken down by type, then by time investment, maybe last contact? Is that data like that? Would that be helpful to visualize things?
Laura | 20:49
Yes, I think it would.
Jeb Ory | 20:52
Okay. Is there a world in which you would be interested in having some smart custom dashboards that are connected to this data that don't do the same thing that Quorum software is doing? I'm not thinking right now about doing the same depth of interaction management, but more of feedback loops and data analysis. Do you think that would be useful or not?
Laura | 21:15
No, think it. I think it would. And you know more about Quorum than I do. But I hope that we can get some of that from Quorum, but I would need to dig into exactly, like, what types of analytics that it can generate for us.
Jeb Ory | 21:35
Yeah, that makes sense. I mean, what I'm envisioning is something that would right alongside some of the different Quorums and the Begobs of the world because, as I understand it, maybe it's changed in the last couple of years, but they're really designed towards tracking the interactions but not really the overall organizational spend and output.
I think there are ways you can do elements of some of those, but in terms of... I'm almost thinking of the term FPA financial planning analysis. Just like a dashboard where you can see everything, beautiful graphs you can drag around and change, that would complement some of those existing platforms.
Laura | 22:18
Right.
Jeb Ory | 22:24
Would kind of be something that would be a little bit apart.
Yeah. Would. And Sam said, you guys are like in the middle of the process of collecting the data. Like, how long do you think it'll take to collect all the data from folks? Or do you think you have a lot of it right now?
Laura | 22:45
We're going to try to get it within the next two months.
Jeb Ory | 22:47
Okay, yeah.
Laura | 22:49
We've got a lot of it already, but I'm skeptical of the list that we have. The number of organizations and that they're actually existing relationships.
So we are embarking on, like, an intake session with different teams, starting really soon.
Jeb Ory | 23:11
Are you giving them surveys? Have you thought about that?
Laura | 23:15
We are going to give a survey. Yeahm.
Jeb Ory | 23:16
Okay, that's good. What do you think? The size of organizations that you're going to end up with on your spreadsheet is going to be.
Laura | 23:28
It's a good question. It's hard to say right now. Yeah, I don't know, I really don't have a good guess as to how many of these are existing. I think probably most are, but there's a.
Jeb Ory | 23:49
Like hundreds or thousandss.
Laura | 23:52
Hundreds. Hundreds for sure.
Jeb Ory | 23:54
And I would imagine you'd have 800100.
Laura | 23:55
I believe 800?
Jeb Ory | 23:58
Okay. What I think you could do is once you have that list, we can use AI to identify other organizations that are on the list that they should be, and say, "Hey, there are three other organizations that you may want to consider engaging with.
Laura | 24:02
Yeah. Thank
Thank.
Jeb Ory | 24:22
And there's a whole other category of stuff that you could be tracking. You didn't mention think tanks, and maybe that's not part of the remit, but I do know that some organizations are tracking, and some companies are tracking, like what think tanks do. We talked about this a little bit with what the output is, but because of the think tank, you're probably not directly going to be impacting or engaging with them.
But it's probably good that... No, hey, here's what Heritage is saying, here's what Brookings is saying about minimum wage and franchise taxes.
Laura | 24:54
Totally Y definitely.
Jeb Ory | 24:55
So would you guys be interested in engaging further and going through India and all that kind of stuff?
So I could actually help mock up some stuff and show you what I'm viewing things things.
Laura | 25:11
No, potentially, I think I would want to.
Jeb Ory | 25:13
Would that be something that you'd be interested in? Okay, sure.
Laura | 25:20
Our process, at least in terms of doing our internal listening sessions, getting our strategy in place done first, and then maybe we could get back in touch later in the fall about something like that.
Jeb Ory | 25:33
Would it be helpful?
A survey is something that I've been thinking about too. I mean, would it be helpful to collaborate on that at all? I could share some of the things that I think are important to be...
I mean, obviously, you guys know your business better. I'm not presupposing that, but sometimes with surveys, there's methodology and certain types of things you want to be asking for that may be useful in the future.
I have some thoughts around that I'd be happy to share if that would be useful for you.
Laura | 26:00
Me maybe.
Jeb Ory | 26:02
Okay. All right. It sounds like then where you are, you're going to continue your process, and we can reengage.
What would a good time to reengage be?
Laura | 26:14
So we're probably looking to, get our refresh strategy refresh list here at Stakeholder List done within like the next, let's call it, let's say twelve weeks or so. Ryan is responsible for Climate Week and COP plans, our COP activation planning.
So we're doing all the things at once in the next couple of months here. If we're unresponsive for a little bit, bear with us because we've got these two gigantic activations that we do in addition to our strategy refresh.
But yeah, I definitely welcome an additional conversation about something like a dashboard in groups and dashboards and things like that, and analytics that would work alongside Quoran.
Jeb Ory | 26:55
Okay, what we could do in just the spirit of iteration too, is if you have something that's 80% right, like your current list, it sounds like what we could do is I could again go through the NDA process,
but I could produce something so you could actually see if it would be helpful or not. Just get you to start thinking about how you could visualize things. I think where you are is a really exciting stage with this, and it could help inform your thinking.
Laura | 27:30
Mhmmmm.
Jeb Ory | 27:30
So I mean, it's just something to think about, like, what could happen if we reengaged in ninety days is like, you know, you guys could be in a very different place.
Laura | 27:37
Yeah.
Jeb Ory | 27:38
And, actually don't know if we need this now, but if you see it now, that's actually really helpful. Or not, it wouldn't be a big lift on your part.
It's just something to think about. Yeah.
Laura | 27:50
Okay.
Jeb Ory | 27:50
Which YP.
Ryan | 27:51
Can I ask to... Would the platform speak to each other? So if we were using Quorum and we were building the dashboard with the platform, would they speak to each other? Or would it not necessitate doing it, entering all the data and tracking it twice?
Jeb Ory | 28:06
So potentially. Ryan, I mean, this is something that I'm investigating. It would not require entering the data twice. What my goal would be is to take the initial data dump that you have and then use that to populate some stuff and figure out how to get additional data in there that doesn't require duplicate entry.
Ryan | 28:28
Okay.
Jeb Ory | 28:28
Yeah. Yeah.
Laura | 28:30
Thank you.
Jeb Ory | 28:31
But I think the value of seeing something like Crosscut and giving you a visualization would be my hypothesis. I think it would be pretty valuable for you in your iteration process too.
So for that case, I would advocate that maybe we don't wait 90 days to reengage, but maybe 4 weeks or something to check in. If you'd be open to that, Laura and Ryan.
Laura | 29:00
Yeah, and just to check here, so you're building something new, right? You don't have an existing platform that you're working on, but you're scoping now what the needs are to see what we could custom build there, something like that.
Jeb Ory | 29:09
And that's right. I'm speaking to people like you and Walmart and Robin Hood and Philip Morris and just large companies that have large stakeholder groups that they're managing, many of whom were my customers in my previous company.
Laura | 29:14
No.
Jeb Ory | 29:25
But this is round two, right? So I'm looking for folks that have vision, understand what they're trying to do, and are open to working with a new startup to help solve a problem that isn't addressed at all well in the marketplace.
It's the same thing we do with my last company.
Laura | 29:42
Yeah.
Jeb Ory | 29:43
We found a couple of early partners who built and solved things for that. And those early partners can have a real impact in driving what the solution looks like.
So the benefit that you get of working with me on this is I'm pulling from other experts and peer organizations too. I'm hearing some of the things at the same time and I'm seeing what some of those commonalities are.
But there's no code written yet, right? I'm in the information gathering phase. So you would have a high degree of customization of what you want. So that's where I am. If that's exciting and motivating to you, then it's a good opportunity for us to work together. Feel like, no, we want something already done off the shelf and, you know, are probably not going to be the best fit for you, but if that's interesting and motivating, that's where I am, and that's what I'm looking for in terms of a partner. Someone who wants new and wants something designed for them specifically. So.
Laura | 30:43
Definitely. Okay, well, it's definitely a lot to think about, so, yeah, let's definitely stay in touch with it.
Jeb Ory | 30:51
No.
Laura | 30:52
And so see sort of see where we get in like the next in the next month and a half or so, that works.
Jeb Ory | 30:58
Okay, would it be helpful to put something on the calendar for early to mid-September that we can cancel if we need to, but when?
Laura | 31:06
We're going to need to go after Climate Week for sure, so we can do the last week of September. SLA first week of October.
Jeb Ory | 31:15
Okay, let's say we'll just put it on the calendar for September 30th at this time, at 10:30 AM Eastern, if that works.
Laura | 31:21
Sure that works for me. Alright, absolutely asking you.
Jeb Ory | 31:28
Okay, awesome. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it. Okay, you too, bye.
Laura | 31:32
Jeb thanks. JE yeah.
